README.md, before:

<img src="https://snyk.io/style/asset/logo/snyk-print.svg" alt="Snyk Logo" />

# Snyk Maven Plugin

[![Maven Release](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.snyk/snyk-maven-plugin)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.snyk/snyk-maven-plugin)
[![Vulnerabilities](https://img.shields.io/snyk/vulnerabilities/github/snyk/snyk-maven-plugin.svg)](https://snyk.io)

Tests and monitors your Maven dependencies for vulnerabilities. This plugin is
officially maintained by [Snyk](https://snyk.io).

## Installation

1. [Get your Snyk API token.](https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-us/articles/360004037537-Authentication-for-third-party-tools)

2. Add the Snyk Maven Plugin to your `pom.xml` and configure it as needed.

```xml
<!-- Example Plugin Configuration -->
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>io.snyk</groupId>
      <artifactId>snyk-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.0</version>
      <inherited>false</inherited>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <id>snyk-test</id>
          <goals>
            <goal>test</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
        <execution>
          <id>snyk-monitor</id>
          <goals>
            <goal>monitor</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
      <configuration>
        <apiToken>${env.SNYK_TOKEN}</apiToken>
        <args>
          <arg>--all-projects</arg>
        </args>
      </configuration>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
```

## Supported Versions

- Java 8 and above.
- Maven 3.2.5 and above.

## Goals

### `test`

Default Phase: `test`

Scans your project's dependencies and provides a list of vulnerabilities if any
are found.

### `monitor`

Default Phase: `install`

Takes a snapshot of your project's dependency tree and monitors it
on [snyk.io](https://snyk.io). You'll be alerted when new relevant
vulnerabilities, updates or patches are disclosed.

## Configuration

You can configure the following parameters inside the `<configuration>` section.
All parameters are optional.

### `apiToken` \[string\]

> ⚠️ Do NOT include your API token directly in your `pom.xml`. Use a variable
> instead.

You must provide a Snyk API token to access Snyk's services. You can do so by:

- Providing `apiToken` in your configuration using a variable.
- Providing a `SNYK_TOKEN` environment variable.
- Authenticating via `snyk auth` using the Snyk CLI before using this plugin.

### `skip` \[boolean\]

Default: `false`

Skip this execution entirely.

When running `mvn`, you can also use `-Dsnyk.skip` to enable this behavior.

### `args` \[array\<string\>\]

This plugin uses [Snyk CLI](https://github.com/snyk/snyk) so you can pass any
supported arguments using `<args>`. See the example below.

For a list of supported arguments,
see [Snyk CLI Reference](https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-us/articles/360003812578-CLI-reference).

```xml
<!-- Example Arguments Configuration -->
<configuration>
  <args>
    <arg>--severity-threshold=high</arg>
    <arg>--scan-all-unmanaged</arg>
    <arg>--json</arg>
  </args>
</configuration>
```

### `cli` \[object\]

Lets you configure the Snyk CLI that's used by this plugin.

By default, the CLI will be automatically downloaded and updated for you.

See [CLI Configuration](#cli-configuration).

## CLI Configuration

> ⚠️ For most use cases you don't need to set any `<cli>` options.

You can configure the CLI in three different modes:

- [Auto-Download and Update](#auto-download-and-update) (default)
- [Custom CLI Executable](#custom-cli-executable)
- [Specific CLI Version](#specific-cli-version)

Follow the link for each mode to see which parameters are available.

```xml
<!-- Example CLI Configuration -->
<configuration>
  <cli>
    <updatePolicy>daily</updatePolicy>
  </cli>
</configuration>
```

### Auto-Download and Update

#### `updatePolicy` \[string\]

Default: `daily`

How often to download the latest CLI release. Can be one of the following:

- `daily` - On the first execution of the day.
- `always` - On every execution.
- `never` - Never update after the initial download.
- `interval:<minutes>` - On the execution after more than `<minutes>` has passed
  since the last update. e.g. `interval:60` will update after an hour.

#### `downloadDestination` \[string\]

Default: OS-specific, see below.

Where to place the downloaded executable. By default, this is OS-specific as
follows:

- Linux - `$XDG_DATA_HOME/snyk/snyk-linux` or `~/.local/share/snyk/snyk-linux`
- macOS - `~/Library/Application Support/Snyk/snyk-macos`
- Windows - `%APPDATA%\Snyk\snyk-win.exe`

### Custom CLI Executable

#### `executable` \[string\]

Example: `~/.local/share/snyk/snyk-linux`

Path to a pre-installed Snyk CLI executable. You can find executables on the
[Snyk CLI Releases page](https://github.com/snyk/snyk/releases).

### Specific CLI Version

#### `version` \[string\]

Example: `1.149.0`

Specify if you want to use a specific version. You can find versions on the
[Snyk CLI Releases page](https://github.com/snyk/snyk/releases).

Setting this option will trigger a download of the CLI on every execution.

## Migrating from Snyk Maven Plugin v1 to v2

All plugin parameters from v1 should be moved to the `<args>` object, to keep
them in line with the CLI usage. For example:

- `org` => `<arg>--org=my-org-name</arg>`
- `failOnSeverity` => `<arg>--severity-threshold=low|medium|high</arg>`
- `failOnAuthError` => Use `<skip>true</skip>` to skip plugin execution.
- `includeProvidedDependencies` => `provided` dependencies are always included.

For a list of supported arguments, see [Configuration](#args-arraystring).

---

Made with 💜 by Snyk

Commit message:

docs: link to demo project

README.md, after:

<img src="https://snyk.io/style/asset/logo/snyk-print.svg" alt="Snyk Logo" />

# Snyk Maven Plugin

[![Maven Release](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.snyk/snyk-maven-plugin)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.snyk/snyk-maven-plugin)
[![Vulnerabilities](https://img.shields.io/snyk/vulnerabilities/github/snyk/snyk-maven-plugin.svg)](https://snyk.io)

Tests and monitors your Maven dependencies for vulnerabilities. This plugin is
officially maintained by [Snyk](https://snyk.io).

## Installation

1. [Get your Snyk API token.](https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-us/articles/360004037537-Authentication-for-third-party-tools)

2. Add the Snyk Maven Plugin to your `pom.xml` and configure it as needed.

```xml
<!-- Example Plugin Configuration -->
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>io.snyk</groupId>
      <artifactId>snyk-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.0</version>
      <inherited>false</inherited>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <id>snyk-test</id>
          <goals>
            <goal>test</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
        <execution>
          <id>snyk-monitor</id>
          <goals>
            <goal>monitor</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
      <configuration>
        <apiToken>${env.SNYK_TOKEN}</apiToken>
        <args>
          <arg>--all-projects</arg>
        </args>
      </configuration>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
```

## Supported Versions

- Java 8 and above.
- Maven 3.2.5 and above.

## Goals

### `test`

Default Phase: `test`

Scans your project's dependencies and provides a list of vulnerabilities if any
are found.

### `monitor`

Default Phase: `install`

Takes a snapshot of your project's dependency tree and monitors it
on [snyk.io](https://snyk.io). You'll be alerted when new relevant
vulnerabilities, updates or patches are disclosed.

## Configuration

You can configure the following parameters inside the `<configuration>` section.
All parameters are optional.

### `apiToken` \[string\]

> ⚠️ Do NOT include your API token directly in your `pom.xml`. Use a variable
> instead.

You must provide a Snyk API token to access Snyk's services. You can do so by:

- Providing `apiToken` in your configuration using a variable.
- Providing a `SNYK_TOKEN` environment variable.
- Authenticating via `snyk auth` using the Snyk CLI before using this plugin.

### `skip` \[boolean\]

Default: `false`

Skip this execution entirely.

When running `mvn`, you can also use `-Dsnyk.skip` to enable this behavior.

### `args` \[array\<string\>\]

This plugin uses [Snyk CLI](https://github.com/snyk/snyk) so you can pass any
supported arguments using `<args>`. See the example below.

For a list of supported arguments,
see [Snyk CLI Reference](https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-us/articles/360003812578-CLI-reference).

```xml
<!-- Example Arguments Configuration -->
<configuration>
  <args>
    <arg>--severity-threshold=high</arg>
    <arg>--scan-all-unmanaged</arg>
    <arg>--json</arg>
  </args>
</configuration>
```

### `cli` \[object\]

Lets you configure the Snyk CLI that's used by this plugin.

By default, the CLI will be automatically downloaded and updated for you.

See [CLI Configuration](#cli-configuration).

## CLI Configuration

> ⚠️ For most use cases you don't need to set any `<cli>` options.

You can configure the CLI in three different modes:

- [Auto-Download and Update](#auto-download-and-update) (default)
- [Custom CLI Executable](#custom-cli-executable)
- [Specific CLI Version](#specific-cli-version)

Follow the link for each mode to see which parameters are available.

```xml
<!-- Example CLI Configuration -->
<configuration>
  <cli>
    <updatePolicy>daily</updatePolicy>
  </cli>
</configuration>
```

### Auto-Download and Update

#### `updatePolicy` \[string\]

Default: `daily`

How often to download the latest CLI release. Can be one of the following:

- `daily` - On the first execution of the day.
- `always` - On every execution.
- `never` - Never update after the initial download.
- `interval:<minutes>` - On the execution after more than `<minutes>` has passed
  since the last update. e.g. `interval:60` will update after an hour.

#### `downloadDestination` \[string\]

Default: OS-specific, see below.

Where to place the downloaded executable. By default, this is OS-specific as
follows:

- Linux - `$XDG_DATA_HOME/snyk/snyk-linux` or `~/.local/share/snyk/snyk-linux`
- macOS - `~/Library/Application Support/Snyk/snyk-macos`
- Windows - `%APPDATA%\Snyk\snyk-win.exe`

### Custom CLI Executable

#### `executable` \[string\]

Example: `~/.local/share/snyk/snyk-linux`

Path to a pre-installed Snyk CLI executable. You can find executables on the
[Snyk CLI Releases page](https://github.com/snyk/snyk/releases).

### Specific CLI Version

#### `version` \[string\]

Example: `1.149.0`

Specify if you want to use a specific version. You can find versions on the
[Snyk CLI Releases page](https://github.com/snyk/snyk/releases).

Setting this option will trigger a download of the CLI on every execution.

## Demonstration

To try out this plugin, see [the demo project](https://github.com/snyk/demo-snyk-maven-plugin).

## Migrating from Snyk Maven Plugin v1 to v2

All plugin parameters from v1 should be moved to the `<args>` object, to keep
them in line with the CLI usage. For example:

- `org` => `<arg>--org=my-org-name</arg>`
- `failOnSeverity` => `<arg>--severity-threshold=low|medium|high</arg>`
- `failOnAuthError` => Use `<skip>true</skip>` to skip plugin execution.
- `includeProvidedDependencies` => `provided` dependencies are always included.

For a list of supported arguments, see [Configuration](#args-arraystring).

---

Made with 💜 by Snyk
